[inference providers] tutorial for image editing with inference providers (#1880)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/inference-providers/guides/image-editor.md

# Building an AI Image Editor with Gradio and Inference Providers

In this guide, we'll build an AI-powered image editor that lets users upload images and edit them using natural language prompts. This project demonstrates how to combine Inference Providers with image-to-image models like [Qwen's Image Edit](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen-Image-Edit) and [Black Forest Labs' Flux Kontext](https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-Kontext-dev).

Our app will:

1. **Accept image uploads** through a web interface
2. **Process natural language prompts** editing instructions like "Turn the cat into a tiger"

> 3. **Transform images** using Qwen Image Edit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Transform images** using Qwen Image Edit or FLUX.1 Kontext
```

4. **Display results** in a Gradio interface

<Tip>

This guide assumes you have a Hugging Face account. If you don't have one, you can create one for free at [huggingface.co](https://huggingface.co).

</Tip>

## Step 1: Set Up Authentication

Before we start coding, authenticate with Hugging Face using your token:

```bash
# Get your token from https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens
export HF_TOKEN="your_token_here"
```

> When you set this environment variable, it handles authentication automatically for all your inference calls. You can generate a token from [your settings page](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens/new?ownUserPermissions=inference.serverless.write&tokenType=fineGrained).

Reviewer: nice to link with the correct permission

## Step 2: Project Setup

Create a new project directory and initialize it with uv:

```bash
mkdir image-editor-app
cd image-editor-app
uv init
```

This creates a basic project structure with a `pyproject.toml` file. Now add the required dependencies:

```bash
uv add huggingface-hub>=0.34.4 gradio>=5.0.0 pillow>=11.3.0
```

> The dependencies are now installed and ready to use! Also, `uv` will create a handy `pyproject.toml` file for you to manage your dependencies as a project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dependencies are now installed and ready to use! Also, `uv` will maintain the `pyproject.toml` file for you as you add dependencies.
```

(just because we already mentioned that `pyproject.toml` was created by `uv init`)

    # Example images and prompts
    with gr.Row():
        gr.Examples(
            examples=[
                ["cat.png", "Turn the cat into a tiger"],
                ["cat.png", "Make it look like a watercolor painting"],
                ["cat.png", "Change the background to a forest"],
            ],
            inputs=[input_image, prompt],
            outputs=output_image,
            fn=edit_image,
            cache_examples=False,
        )

    # Event handlers
    edit_btn.click(fn=edit_image, inputs=[input_image, prompt], outputs=output_image)

    # Allow Enter key to trigger editing
    prompt.submit(fn=edit_image, inputs=[input_image, prompt], outputs=output_image)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    interface.launch(
        share=True,  # Creates a public link
        server_name="0.0.0.0",  # Allow external access
        server_port=7860,  # Default Gradio port
        show_error=True,  # Show errors in the interface
    )
```

</details>

## Deploy on Hugging Face Spaces

1. **Create a new Space**: Go to [huggingface.co/new-space](https://huggingface.co/new-space)
2. **Choose Gradio SDK** and make it public

> 3. **Upload your files**: Upload `main.py` and any example images

Reviewer: Also `requirements.txt` if necessary, no? Users would have to create it manually from the toml file (unless there's a way to automate it)

4. **Add your token**: In Space settings, add `HF_TOKEN` as a secret
5. **Launch**: Your app will be live at `https://huggingface.co/spaces/your-username/your-space-name`

# Next Steps

Congratulations! You've created a production-ready AI image editor. Now that you have a working image editor, here are some ideas to extend it:

- **Batch processing**: Edit multiple images at once
- **Object removal**: Remove unwanted objects from images
- **Provider comparison**: Benchmark different providers for your use case

> Happy building! And remember to share your app with the community on the hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Happy building! And remember to share your app with the community on the Hub.
```

# Building an AI Image Editor with Gradio and Inference Providers

In this guide, we'll build an AI-powered image editor that lets users upload images and edit them using natural language prompts. This project demonstrates how to combine Inference Providers with image-to-image models like [Qwen's Image Edit](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen-Image-Edit) and [Black Forest Labs' Flux Kontext](https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-Kontext-dev).

Our app will:

1. **Accept image uploads** through a web interface
2. **Process natural language prompts** editing instructions like "Turn the cat into a tiger"
3. **Transform images** using Qwen Image Edit or FLUX.1 Kontext
4. **Display results** in a Gradio interface

<Tip>

This guide assumes you have a Hugging Face account. If you don't have one, you can create one for free at [huggingface.co](https://huggingface.co).

</Tip>

> ## Step 1: Set Up Authentication

Reviewer 2: smol suggestion would be to add a TL;DR here with the link to a deployed space where people can try out the model directly and link to the code snippet below.

## Step 2: Project Setup

Create a new project directory and initialize it with uv:

```bash
mkdir image-editor-app
cd image-editor-app
uv init
```

This creates a basic project structure with a `pyproject.toml` file. Now add the required dependencies:

```bash
uv add huggingface-hub>=0.34.4 gradio>=5.0.0 pillow>=11.3.0
```

The dependencies are now installed and ready to use! Also, `uv` will maintain the `pyproject.toml` file for you as you add dependencies.

<Tip>

We're using `uv` because it's a fast Python package manager that handles dependency resolution and virtual environment management automatically. It's much faster than pip and provides better dependency resolution. If you're not familiar with `uv`, check it out [here](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/).

</Tip>

## Step 3: Build the Core Image Editing Function

Now let's create the main logic for our application - the image editing function that transforms images using AI.

> Create `main.py` then import the necessary libraries and instantiate the InferenceClient. We're using the `fal-ai` provider for fast image processing, but other providers are available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create `main.py` then import the necessary libraries and instantiate the InferenceClient. We're using the `fal-ai` provider for fast image processing, but other providers like `replicate` are also available.
```

```python
import os
import gradio as gr
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient
import io

# Initialize the client with fal-ai provider for fast image processing
client = InferenceClient(
    provider="fal-ai",

>     api_key=os.environ["HF_TOKEN"],

Reviewer 2: if you export the HF_TOKEN above you don't need to explicitly pass the token. (in case you want to simplify the code a bit)

though probably better to be explicit.

```python
def edit_image(input_image, prompt):
    """
    Edit an image using the given prompt.
    
    Args:
        input_image: PIL Image object from Gradio
        prompt: String prompt for image editing
    
    Returns:
        PIL Image object (edited image)
    """
    if input_image is None:
        return None
    
    if not prompt or prompt.strip() == "":
        return input_image
    
    try:
        # Convert PIL Image to bytes
        img_bytes = io.BytesIO()
        input_image.save(img_bytes, format="PNG")
        img_bytes = img_bytes.getvalue()
        
        # Use the image_to_image method with Qwen's image editing model
        edited_image = client.image_to_image(
            img_bytes,
            prompt=prompt.strip(),
            model="Qwen/Qwen-Image-Edit",
        )
        
        return edited_image
    
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"Error editing image: {e}")
        return input_image
```

<Tip>

> We're using the `fal-ai` provider with the `Qwen/Qwen-Image-Edit` model. The fal-ai provider offers fast inference times, perfect for interactive applications. In some use cases, you might want to switch between providers for maximum performance. Whilst in others you might want to go for the consistency of a single provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're using the `fal-ai` provider with the `Qwen/Qwen-Image-Edit` model. The fal-ai provider offers fast inference times, perfect for interactive applications.
```

The last line reads a bit off to me.

> You can experiment with different providers for various performance characteristics:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, you can experiment with different providers for various performance characteristics:
```

# Building an AI Image Editor with Gradio and Inference Providers

In this guide, we'll build an AI-powered image editor that lets users upload images and edit them using natural language prompts. This project demonstrates how to combine Inference Providers with image-to-image models like [Qwen's Image Edit](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen-Image-Edit) and [Black Forest Labs' Flux Kontext](https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-Kontext-dev).

Our app will:

1. **Accept image uploads** through a web interface
2. **Process natural language prompts** editing instructions like "Turn the cat into a tiger"
3. **Transform images** using Qwen Image Edit or FLUX.1 Kontext

> 4. **Display results** in a Gradio interface

Reviewer 3: (or a screenshot of https://huggingface.co/spaces/Qwen/Qwen-Image-Edit)

> 4. **Display results** in a Gradio interface

Reviewer 3: lol made a similar comment as @NielsRogge at the same time 🤯
